add docs on client vs server (#555)
blitz-js/blitzjs.com: app/pages/docs/client-and-server.mdx

---
id: client-and-server
title: Client and Server
sidebar_label: Client and Server
---

Blitz is focused on making the communication between server and client
seamless. That means you can import and use server code directly in your
UI components. However, you might be wondering what runs on the server and
what runs on the client. Here's a quick overview.

#### Queries and mutations

Queries and mutations only run on the server — at build time, the direct
function import is replaced with an RPC network call. So the query
function code is never included in your client code. It's instead moved to
an API layer.

#### API Routes

API handlers defined in `api/` directory run only on the server. Read more
about [API Routes](./api-routes).

#### React Components

> Everything inside a page or component file happens both server and client.
> However, you can opt-in for a full server-side rendering by exporting an
> async function called `getServerSideProps`. The server will call this
> function on every request. Read more about
> [`getServerSideProps`](./get-server-side-props).

Reviewer: Awesome, very good! Just one modification.

```suggestion
All code inside a page or component file runs on both server and client, except for 
[`getServerSideProps`](./get-server-side-props) or [`getStaticProps`](./get-static-props). Code that is imported and ran inside those two functions will only run on the server.
```
